Asset templates (#27)
tari-project/tari: RFC/src/RFC-0310_AssetTemplates.md

   disclaimer.
2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright notice, this list of conditions and the following
   disclaimer in the documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
3. Neither the name of the copyright holder nor the names of its contributors may be used to endorse or promote products
   derived from this software without specific prior written permission.

THIS DOCUMENT IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS "AS IS" AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES,
INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE
DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT HOLDER OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL,
SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR
SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY,
WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF
THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.

## Language

> The key words "MUST", "MUST NOT", "REQUIRED", "SHALL", "SHALL NOT", "SHOULD", "SHOULD NOT", "RECOMMENDED", "MAY", and

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The key words "MUST", "MUST NOT", "REQUIRED", "SHALL", "SHALL NOT", "SHOULD", "SHOULD NOT", "RECOMMENDED", 
"NOT RECOMMENDED", "MAY", and "OPTIONAL" in this document are to be interpreted as described in 
```

> "OPTIONAL" in this document are to be interpreted as described in [RFC 2119](http://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc2119).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[BCP 14](https://tools.ietf.org/html/bcp14) [RFC2119] [RFC8174] when, and only when, they appear in all capitals, as 
shown here.
```

The instruction will contain the following information:
(PKH = Public Key Hash)

| Name                               | Type          | Description                                                                                                                   |
|:-----------------------------------|:--------------|:------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| **Asset description**              |               |                                                                                                                               |
| issuer                             | PKH           | The public key of the creator of the asset. See [issuer](#issuer)                                                             |
| name                               | `string[64]`  | The name or identifier for the asset. See [Name and Description](#name-and-description)                                       |
| description                        | `string[128]` | A short description of the asset - fits in a tweet. . See [Name and Description](#name-and-description)                       |

> | tldi                               | `string[16]`  | The Top Level Digital Issuer (TLDI) for the asset. The TLDI must be owned by the asset issuer, or empty / "Other" for no TLDI |

Reviewer: Observation was good.
`TLDI` was changed to `RAID_ID`, so this is not applicable anymore.

| tldi_signature                     | `u256`        | Digital signature for the given TLDI                                                                                          |
| template_number                    | `u64`         | The template number and version for this asset (e.g. 0x01 => Simple single-use token)                                         |
| asset_expiry                       | `u64`         | A timestamp or block height after which the asset will automatically expire. Zero for arbitrarily long-lived assets           |
| **Validation Committee selection** |               |                                                                                                                               |

> | committee_mode                     | `u8`          | The validation committee mode, either `PERMISSIONED` (0) or `PERMISSIONLESS` (1)                                              |

Author: I quite like the `ASSIGNED` nomenclature. I just think it should be applied to what we're currently calling "PERMISSIONED". 

I think some more discussion on this point is warranted.

> | committee_mode                     | `u8`          | The validation committee mode, either `PERMISSIONED` (0) or `PERMISSIONLESS` (1)                                              |

Reviewer: I would go with Permissioned => Assigned and Permissionless => Elected

> | committee_mode                     | `u8`          | The validation committee mode, either `PERMISSIONED` (0) or `PERMISSIONLESS` (1)                                              |

Reviewer: There are still confusion with the intuitive meaning of the names
This is in direct contrast, so we have to choose the most intuitive names or suggest something better

| committee_parameters               | Object        |                                                                                                                               |

> | fee                                | `u64`         | The fee the issuer is paying, in nanoTari for the asset creation instruction                                                  |

Author: I guess it depends on whether this is the initial registration cost, or an ongoing pool of money to pay for the running of the asset.

The intent here was for the former, but we  may yet move to the latter model, in which case we would need to change the name

> | fee                                | `u64`         | The fee the issuer is paying, in nanoTari for the asset creation instruction                                                  |

Reviewer: My basis comment is that the variable name should be descriptive enough to capture the intent, thus to pre-fix or post-fix 'asset'. It could be a fee or a cost, depending on the model.

> | fee                                | `u64`         | The fee the issuer is paying, in nanoTari for the asset creation instruction                                                  |

Author: I'll change it to `asset_creation_fee` to make it absolutely clear. If we change the model, we can amend

> | commitment                         | `u256`        | A time-locked commitment for the fee amount                                                                                   |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| commitment                         | `u256`        | A time-locked commitment for the asset fee amount                                                                             |
```

| commitment_sig                     | `u256`        | A signature proving the issuer is able to spend the commitment                                                                |
| initial_state_hash                 | `u256`        | The hash of the canonical serialisation of the initial template state (of the template-specific data)                         |
| **Signatures**                     |               |                                                                                                                               |

> | creator_sig                        | `u256`        | A digital signature of the preceding 2 sections’ data using the asset creator’s private key corresponding to the `issuer` PKH |

Reviewer 2: Maybe replace "2" with "two", it reads informal.

> | **template-specific data**         |               | Depending on the template, the data in the final section varies and corresponds to the initial asset state                    |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| **Template-specific data**         |               |                                                                                                                               |
```

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| token_amount                       |  u64          | The amount of tokens in the asset                                                                                             |
| initial_asset_state                |  Object       | The initial asset state, including that for all tokens                                                                        |
| asset_lock_height                  |  u64          | Base node block height at which the asset will start to be "live"                                                             |
```

Author: The token supply is template-dependent, so shouldn't be included here

Reviewer: I do not follow the reasoning here...
Surely the asset issuer must specify the amount of tokens?

Author: Yes, but some templates might not have tokens at all, so it goes in the template-specific metadata

#### Committee parameters

> If `committee_mode` is `PERMISSIONED` the `committee_mode` object is

Reviewer 3: see above commits regarding naming.

Author: Naming convention has been updated

| Name             | Type         | Description |
|:-----------------|:-------------|:------------|
| trusted_node_set | Array of PKH | See below   |

Only the nodes in the trusted node set will be allowed to execute instructions for this asset.

If `committee_mode` is `PERMISSIONLESS` the `committee_mode` object is

| Name                    | Type  | Description                                                                                                                       |
|:------------------------|:------|:----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|

> | node_threshold          | `u32` | The total number of validator nodes that can register to execute instructions for this asset                                      |

Reviewer 3: I believe this is the max, we should add a min here as well. 
The required nodes cannot be a x, it needs to be allowed to run a range of nodes, say z<x<y, where is the x current nodes on the asset

> | node_threshold          | `u32` | The total number of validator nodes that can register to execute instructions for this asset                                      |

Author: It's a fair point. 

My question is, if we have a `z<x<y`, once we have `z` nodes signed up, how do we know when we can move the asset state from "registering" to active? Do we start a timer to allow us to try and reach `y`, and if so, how long should we wait?

> | node_threshold          | `u32` | The total number of validator nodes that can register to execute instructions for this asset                                      |

Reviewer: If the pre-requisites are not met the asset issuer must rethink/resubmit the asset registration. That is the basis contract.

> | node_threshold          | `u32` | The total number of validator nodes that can register to execute instructions for this asset                                      |

Author: Let's keep it fixed for now and amend later if we decide to

| minimum_collateral      | `u64` | The minimum amount of Tari a validator node must put up in collateral in order to execute instructions for this asset.([RFC-???]) |
| node_selection_strategy | `u32` | The selection strategy to employ allowing nodes to register to manage this asset                                                  |

#### Issuer

Anyone can issue assets on the Tari network from their wallet or client program. The wallet will provide the PKH and
sign the instruction. The wallet needn’t use the same private key each time.

#### Name and Description

These fields are purely for informational purposes and do not need to be unique, and do not act as an asset ID.

#### Top level digital issuers

If it is likely that a digital asset issuer will be issuing many assets on the Tari Network (hundreds, or thousands),

> the issuer should strongly consider registering a name (e.g. `TARILABS`) as a top-level digital asset issuer. This is

Reviewer 3: should we perhaps not force a name, this will keep spam to a minimum and you will no its a legit asset. We all know not all users are that clued up with the current state of the network.

> the issuer should strongly consider registering a name (e.g. `TARILABS`) as a top-level digital asset issuer. This is

Author: I think allowing an option for people can play with the network at very low cost is important for the future growth of the network. *Requiring*  a TLDI is an extra barrier we don't need.

For spam mitigation, I'd prefer an indirect approach. E.g. one that forces no-name assets to provide an expiry date, with a max of 6 months, say.

done via a special transaction on the base layer, described in [RFC-???](). A registered TLDI prevents spoofing of

> assets from copy cats or other malicious actors. It also makes asset discovery simpler.

Reviewer 2: Change "copy cats" to "copycats" -> https://dictionary.cambridge.org/dictionary/english/copycat

TLDI owners need to provide a valid signature proving that they own the given domain when creating assets.

#### Asset identification

> Assets are identified by `<TLDI>.#_hhhhh` on the Tari network, where `#` is the template number, and `hhhhh`

Reviewer 3: 64bit is much long than 10 bits decimal. u64 = 0 to 18,446,744,073,709,551,615

> Assets are identified by `<TLDI>.#_hhhhh` on the Tari network, where `#` is the template number, and `hhhhh`

Author: Yeah, we don't need fixed lengths, the delimiters `#` and `_` allow easy parsing of the ID

> Assets are identified by `<TLDI>.#_hhhhh` on the Tari network, where `#` is the template number, and `hhhhh`

Author: But this does make me think that we should perhaps move the feature flags to the bottom of the reserved range. As it stands all beta template will have HUGE decimal numbers...

> Assets are identified by `<TLDI>.#_hhhhh` on the Tari network, where `#` is the template number, and `hhhhh`

Reviewer 3: Is that perhaps not a good thing? Having beta stuff sit way out there at the top of the range, while leaving the bottom lower numbers for normal use?

> Assets are identified by `<TLDI>.#_hhhhh` on the Tari network, where `#` is the template number, and `hhhhh`

Author: That's exactly what I'm suggesting, but instead of

`100000000000000000000000000010101101101111` = 219,354,354,454,334,763,324
 `^- Beta flag `

we have
`000000000000001000000000000010101101101111` = 817,123,343,102
`~~~~~~~~~~~~~~^- Beta flag `

and reserve the higher bits for future feature flags that may/may not ever be used.

_numbers are made up and are for illustrative purposes only_

> Assets are identified by `<TLDI>.#_hhhhh` on the Tari network, where `#` is the template number, and `hhhhh`

Reviewer 3: This makes sense for now, but if we use the future flags in the future, this will not?

> Assets are identified by `<TLDI>.#_hhhhh` on the Tari network, where `#` is the template number, and `hhhhh`

Author: Future flags will make the number bigger, but later. 

Maybe the asset id should split the template id up. Something like

`<TLDI>_<template_type>.<version>.<flags>_<hash>`

> Assets are identified by `<TLDI>.#_hhhhh` on the Tari network, where `#` is the template number, and `hhhhh`

Reviewer: `TLDI` was changed to `RAID_ID`, so my original comment is not applicable anymore.

is a hash of the asset creation instruction.

This allows assets to be deterministically identified from their initial state. Two different creation instructions
leading to the same hash refer to the same single asset, by definition. Validator Nodes maintain an index of assets and
their committees, and so can determine whether a given asset already exists; and MUST reject any `create_asset`
instruction for an existing asset.

#### Template number

Tari uses templates to define the behaviour for its smart contracts. The template number refers to the type of digital

> asset begin created. The logic and rules associated with each template will be part of every[*] validator node's binary.

Author: I agree with the idea, but would keep the ranges at word-alignment bounds, so Below 2^16 ...

> asset begin created. The logic and rules associated with each template will be part of every[*] validator node's binary.

Reviewer: Agreed

[*]: # 'Except possibly for proprietary plugin templates running on permissioned committees'

The template number is a 64-bit unsigned integer and has the following format, with 0 representing
the least significant bit.

| Bit range | Description                            |
|:----------|:---------------------------------------|

> | 0 - 31    | Template number (0 - 4,294,967,295)    |

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
| 0 - 31    | Template id (0 - 4,294,967,295)    |
```

Reviewer 3: refrain from calling that number, template number is already the whole thing, we cant have two template numbers

Author: Ok, fair point. Rather keep this field as number though, and the full `u64` as the template id

| 32 - 47   | Template version (0 - 65,535)          |
| 48 - 58   | Reserved  (Must be 0)                  |
| 59        | Non-public nodes flag                  |

> | 60        | Confidentiality data flag              |

Reviewer 3: I dont think we can ever have true confidential assets if you run in selected, assigned or what ever mode. For confidential you need nominated nodes. 

But we can use this as a way to let the VN know the asset issuer wants this private, we can then perhaps build up a naughty list of known vn's who ignore this flag.

> | 60        | Confidentiality data flag              |

Author: I agree, @hansieodendaal. Particularly around defining what we mean by confidentiality. That discussion is not for this RFC though

> | 60        | Confidentiality data flag              |

Reviewer: Agreed @cjs77, so we can just have the flag for when we can do something about it. Maybe it will mean partial confidentiality vs. none at all, or similar.

Many assets can be issued from a single template.

Examples of template types may be

| Template number | Asset                    |
|:----------------|:-------------------------|
| 1               | Simple single-use tokens |
| 2               | Simple coupons           |
| ...             | ...                      |
| 120             | Collectible Cards        |
| 144             | In-game items            |

The template number may also set one or more feature flags to indicate that the contract is
* experimental, or in testing phase, (bit 63).
* a “corporate” template (i.e. it’s not a community-developed template, but one developed by an asset issuer to address
  their specific needs - bit 62). However, the code for the contract is open-source and can be linked into validator
  node binaries.
* It’s possible that we allow “corporate” templates to be executed via plugins to the node software (i.e. they are not
  part of the core Tari codebase at all). Thus these templates may be running proprietary code. (bit 61). It follows
  that not all validator nodes will be aware of such contracts and that all assets running under such contracts would be

>   executed in [permissioned mode].

Reviewer 3: see naming above. 

We need to decide on a name before this gets accepted so as not to confuse people afterwords

Author: Yeah, I'll apply those changes universally once we converge on a naming convention

The instruction MUST contain the following fields:
(PKH = Public Key Hash)

| Name                               | Type          | Description                                                                                                                     |
|:-----------------------------------|:--------------|:--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| **Asset description**              |               |                                                                                                                                 |
| issuer                             | PKH           | The public key of the creator of the asset. See [issuer](#issuer)                                                               |
| name                               | `string[64]`  | The name or identifier for the asset. See [Name and Description](#name-and-description)                                         |
| description                        | `string[216]` | A short description of the asset - with name, fits in a tweet. See [Name and Description](#name-and-description)                |

> | tldi                               | `string[16]`  | The Top Level Digital Issuer (TLDI) for the asset. The TLDI must be owned by the asset issuer, or "" for an unregistered asset  |

Reviewer: `TLDI` was changed to `RAID_ID`
string[16] will be too small, looks more like 44 hex characters, thus string[64]
Registered Asset Issuer Domain (RAID)
RAID_ID (RAID Identification)

Reviewer: An empty string does not hash well
I am currently proposing `RAID_ID = Base58Check(Hash256("No FQDN"))` and 
`RAID_ID = Base58Check(Hash256(PubKey || FQDN))` in
RFC-0301/NamespaceRegistration, PR to follow soon

Author: 64 characters for a purely informational ID field is too much; I suggest we look at ways to represent the RAID id in 16 characters, either by clipping or using a different hash function.

Reviewer: Le us discuss this, current proposal has RAID_ID at 34 characters.

Author: Discussion in #150

> | tldi_signature                     | `u256`        | Digital signature for the given TLDI                                                                                            |

Reviewer: Ditto RAID_ID

|:------------------------|:------|:----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| node_threshold          | `u32` | The required number of validator nodes that must register to execute instructions for this asset                      |
| minimum_collateral      | `u64` | The minimum amount of Tari a validator node must put up in collateral in order to execute instructions for this asset |
| node_selection_strategy | `u32` | The selection strategy to employ allowing nodes to register to manage this asset                                      |

#### Issuer

Anyone can create new assets on the Tari network from their Tari Collections client. The client will provide the PKH and
sign the instruction. The client needn’t use the same private key each time.

#### Name and Description

These fields are purely for informational purposes and do not need to be unique, and do not act as an asset ID.

#### Top level digital issuers

If it is likely that a digital asset issuer will be issuing many assets on the Tari Network (hundreds, or thousands),

> the issuer should strongly consider registering a name (e.g. `ACME_CORP`) as a top-level digital asset issuer. This is

Reviewer: ```suggestion
the issuer should strongly consider registering a RAID_ID that is linked to a Fully Qualified Domain Name (FQDN). This is
```

> done via a special transaction on the base layer, described in [RFC-0210](RFC-0210_NamespaceRegistration.md). A

Reviewer: ```suggestion
described in [RFC-0301](RFC-0301_NamespaceRegistration.md). A
```

> registered TLDI prevents spoofing of assets from copycats or other malicious actors. It also makes asset discovery

Reviewer: ```suggestion
registered RAID_ID prevents spoofing of assets from copycats or other malicious actors. It also makes asset discovery
```

simpler.

> Assets from issuers that do not have a registered TLDI are all grouped under the `UNREGISTERED` TLDI.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Assets from issuers that do not have a registered RAID_ID makes use of a network assigned default RAID_ID.
```

> TLDI owners must provide a valid signature proving that they own the given domain when creating assets.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
RAID_ID owners must provide a valid signature proving that they created the OpenAlias TXT DNS record when creating assets.
```

#### Asset identification

> Assets are identified by `<TLDI>.#_hhhhh` on the Tari network, where `#` is the template number, and `hhhhh`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Assets are identified by `<RAID_ID>_<template_type>.<version>.<flags>_<hash>` on the Tari network, where <hash>
```
